Yum Profit Falls 68% as Same-Store Sales Slump in China\n\n

  		Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM), whose KFC fast-food chain is facing more competition in China, said third-quarter profit fell 68 percent and cut its 2013 earnings forecast as same-store sales dropped in the Asian nation.

  		Net income decreased to $152 million, or 33 cents a share, from $471 million, or $1, a year earlier, the Louisville, Kentucky-based company said yesterday in a statement. Excluding certain items, profit was 85 cents a share. Analysts projected 92 cents, the average of 23 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. A tax rate increase negatively affected per-share earnings by 10 percentage points, Yum said.

  		Yum, which gets about three-quarters of its revenue from outside the U.S., is facing more competition from expanding restaurant chains, such as Dicos and Hua Lai Shi in China. It&rsquo;s also facing a backlash from consumers there after an outbreak of avian flu scared diners away from poultry and a former chicken supplier was investigated for selling food with too much antibiotics. Sales at Chinese stores open at least 12 months fell 11 percent at Yum eateries.

  		&ldquo;It&rsquo;s just taking a little longer than we expected&rdquo; for China to recover, Jonathan Blum, a Yum spokesman, said in an interview. While consumer trust in KFC has improved in the Asian country, &ldquo;it&rsquo;s not exactly back to where it was,&rdquo; he said.

  		The company in November will introduce a new KFC advertising campaign in China about quality assurance, Chief Executive Officer David Novak said on a conference call today. The ads will feature store employees and suppliers such as poultry farmers, he said.

  		The shares fell 8.5 percent to $65.24 at 9:45 a.m. in New York. They had gained 7.9 percent this year through the close of regular trading yesterday, compared with a 16 percent increase for the Standard &amp; Poor&rsquo;s 500 Index.

  		Yum lowered its forecast for 2013 earnings, citing &ldquo;lower-than-expected China sales and a higher-than-expected full-year tax rate.&rdquo; Full-year earnings excluding certain items will decline at a &ldquo;high-single to low-double-digit&rdquo; percentage rate from the prior year, the company said. Yum previously said earnings would decline at a &ldquo;mid-single-digit&rdquo; rate.

  		The fast-food company also cut its forecast for China, saying fourth-quarter same-store sales there will &ldquo;unlikely&rdquo; be positive. Yum last month forecast growth in comparable-store sales for the Asian nation.

  		&ldquo;Sales have not yet fully recovered from the adverse publicity surrounding the December poultry supply incident,&rdquo; the company said in yesterday&rsquo;s statement.

  		Yum, which has more than 6,000 KFC, Pizza Hut and other stores in China, has been trying to attract customers there with an ad campaign telling people it&rsquo;s safe to eat properly cooked chicken. The company, which is targeting young families with the advertisements, also is promoting other proteins in China such as shrimp and mushroom rolls.

  		Same-store sales were unchanged in the U.S. in the third quarter, while analysts estimated a 1.5 percent increase, according to Consensus Metrix, a researcher owned by Wayne, New Jersey-based Kaul Advisory Group. Same-store sales also were unchanged in India and advanced 1 percent at other international stores.

  		Comparable-store sales are considered an indicator of growth because they include only older, established locations.&nbsp;

