China Vows to Ease One-Child Rule as Party Details Reform\n\n

  	Republished from Bloomberg by&nbsp;Bloomberg News - Nov 15, 2013

  	China pledged the most sweeping changes since the 1990s to the Communist Party&rsquo;s policies, vowing to ease the one-child policy, expand farmers&rsquo; land rights and allow more private investment in state industries.

  	Couples may have two children if either parent is an only child, according to a party policy decision published today by the official Xinhua News Agency. The document, covering 60 measures, fleshes out a communique issued Nov. 12 after a four-day conclave in Beijing and sets a 2020 goal for implementation.

  	The announcement builds on promises to elevate the role of markets in the world&rsquo;s second-largest economy while keeping the state in a &ldquo;dominant&rdquo; position. China is seeking to balance finding new sources of growth with sustaining the Communist Party&rsquo;s grip on power as President Xi Jinping faces challenges from debt to demographics.

  	&ldquo;Even if all of the measures are not implemented, the ambition and the political will for change that they express is extraordinarily positive,&rdquo; said Kenneth Courtis, former Asia vice chairman at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and now managing partner of Starfort Investments.

  	The family-planning policy, dating back almost to Mao Zedong&rsquo;s time, was put in place in 1979 to alleviate poverty. It has saddled the nation with a declining labor force and an aging population. The United Nations has estimated that the number of 15- to 24-year-olds, the mainstay of factories that drove growth for two decades, would shrink by about 67 million by 2030.

  	Under the current policy, couples are only allowed to have a second child if both parents are only children.

  	China&rsquo;s stocks rose ahead of today&rsquo;s release, capping the benchmark index (SHCOMP)&rsquo;s biggest gain in a month, on speculation about the reform document. The Shanghai Composite Index climbed 1.7 percent, while yields on the nation&rsquo;s 10-year notes increased to the highest level since 2007.

  	&ldquo;Now it&rsquo;s going to be the hard and complicated slog of implementation,&rdquo; said Stephen Green, head of Greater China research at Standard Chartered Plc in Hong Kong.

  	The reforms are the biggest since the late 1990s, when Premier Zhu Rongji&rsquo;s shake-up of state industries cost millions of jobs, according to Shen Jianguang, an economist at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. in Hong Kong. UBS AG called the document &ldquo;a sweeping reform plan,&rdquo; while noting that the impact from the population-control change would probably be limited.

  	Yuan Gangming, a researcher with the government-run Chinese Academy of Social Sciences in Beijing, said the plenum decision amounts to the broadest reform pledge since 1993, when President Jiang Zemin paved the way for market-driven changes and a realignment of the relationship between central and local government spending.

  	At the same time, the latest plenum&rsquo;s policies &ldquo;failed to make an ideological breakthrough -- for which it&rsquo;s not able to rival the one in 1978,&rdquo; Yuan said. He was referring to when then-paramount leader Deng Xiaoping broke with three decades of Maoism and introduced pro-market policies that preceded growth averaging 10 percent a year.

  	The government will give farmers rights to share, profit from, sell, collateralize and inherit ownership in collective assets, the document said, adding that a rural property market will be established. Internal migration restrictions imposed under the household registration, or hukou, system set up under Chairman Mao Zedong will be scrapped in towns and small cities and gradually relaxed in medium-sized cities, while the sizes of mega-cities will be strictly controlled.

  	China will develop a &ldquo;mixed ownership economy&rdquo; that helps state-owned assets maintain or increase their value and boost their competitiveness, according to Xinhua.

  	The party also said 30 percent of profits produced by state capital will be transferred to public finances, allowing the government to spend more on improving people&rsquo;s well-being. Current policies require central government-administered companies to transfer only as much as 15 percent.

  	&ldquo;China is now moving aggressively to assemble the building blocks of a consumer society,&rdquo; said Stephen Roach, former chief economist at Morgan Stanley, who is now a senior fellow at Yale University&rsquo;s Jackson Institute of Global Affairs. &ldquo;The measures aimed at family planning, capturing excess SOE profits, and rural income support should lead to a stronger social safety net,&rdquo; he said, referring to state-owned enterprises.

  	The People&rsquo;s Bank of China will &ldquo;make all efforts to deepen reform and opening-up in the finance industry&rdquo; to promote economic development, Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said in a separate statement.

  	The nation will accelerate convertibility of the yuan and freeing-up of interest rates, improve treasury yield curves and let qualified private investors set up small-to-medium sized banks, according to the decision.

  	Authorities pledged to accelerate property-tax legislation and the nation will explore raising the retirement age, according to Xinhua. China will push pricing changes for water, oil, gas, power, transportation, telecommunications and other sectors, the document said.

  	&ldquo;The key is implementation,&rdquo; with challenges likely to follow on land, fiscal issues and state-owned enterprise changes, said Wang Tao, chief China economist at UBS in Hong Kong. If reforms are carried out, &ldquo;it will certainly make China&rsquo;s growth more sustainable.&rdquo;

