China Eastern Airline\n\n

  	China Eastern Air Holding Company, headquartered in Shanghai, is one of the three largest major state-owned air transport companies in China. The scope of business includes public air transportation, general aviation and air transport operations and the production and sale of related products, aviation equipment and equipment maintenance, passenger air transport, freight services and ground handling, aircraft leasing, and aviation training and consulting services. 
  	　 In January 2010, China Eastern Air Holding Company possessed assets worth a total of about RMB 108.5 billion Yuan, owned more than 330 large and medium-sized and 18 general aviation aircraft, provided air service to 151 destinations, and had over 60,000 employees. 

  	Currently, China Eastern Air Holding Company is the parent company of 21 subsidiaries. Thus, after years of optimizing and integrating resources, it has established an air transportation network an air transportation network offering services that include aviation food services, import and export, financial futures, mass media advertising, ticket sales and airport investment. 
  	　China Eastern Airlines Corporation Limited is at the core of China Eastern Air Holding Company. Its predecessor is China Eastern Airlines, which was founded in June 1988. Listed on the Hong Kong, New York and Shanghai stock exchanges in 1997, China Eastern Airlines became the first listed company in Chinese civil aviation industry. China Eastern has established an air transportation network linking all corners of the world with Shanghai, the company&rsquo;s major hub, and Xi&rsquo;an and Kunming, its regional hubs. 
  	　　China Eastern has successively been rewarded the &ldquo;Annual Laureate Award&rdquo; and &ldquo;10-Year Cordial Service Award&rdquo; by the International Air Transport Association (IATA) as well as the &ldquo;Five-Star Diamond Award&rdquo; by the American Academy of Hospitality Sciences, and held the title for many years in the activities of &ldquo;Passengers Talk About Civil Aviation&rdquo; organized by the Chinese Civil Aviation Association. 
  	　　Bringing you the world, China Eastern is flying with you! As the first global cooperative partner and the only aviation passenger transportation carrier of the Shanghai World Expo in 2010, China Eastern has always held &ldquo;customer satisfaction above all else&rdquo;, advocated &ldquo;providing dedicated service to our loyal customers&rdquo;, and been dedicated to creating a top-quality service brand, establishing a comprehensive airline route network and building a superb airline company that is &ldquo;cherished by staff, preferred by customers, satisfactory to shareholders and trusted by society&rdquo;.In this way, China Eastern built the &ldquo;World Expo Airport Express&rdquo; providing passage from all over the world using a fleet of advanced passenger and cargo aircraft, ensured high-quality safe flights, guaranteed highly efficient operations and top-level transportation service. 

