Emerging Stocks Drop on China as Ukraine Loan Outlook Spurs Debt\n\n

  	Republished from Bloomberg by&nbsp;Harry Suhartono and Lyubov Pronina, Dec 16, 2013

  	Emerging-market stocks headed for a month low after data showing Chinese manufacturing unexpectedly fell weighed on Asian shares. Ukraine&rsquo;s stocks and bonds gained as the debt-strapped country prepares for talks in Moscow.

  	SAIC Motor Corp. (600104) paced losses by Chinese automakers in Shanghai amid concern city governments will impose more measures to curb pollution. The Ukrainian Equities Index (UX) climbed for a fourth day and the government&rsquo;s 2014 bonds rallied. OAO Gazprom led a 0.8 percent advance on the Micex Index in Moscow, while stocks in Turkey and Hungary added at least 0.8 percent following better-than-expected euro-zone factory data. Brazil&rsquo;s Ibovespa increased 0.2 percent as commodities including crude oil and industrial metals advanced.

  	The MSCI Emerging Markets Index dropped for a fifth day, losing 0.1 percent to 989.12 at 1:13 p.m. in London. China&rsquo;s Purchasing Managers&rsquo; Index fell to a three-month low, suggesting the world&rsquo;s second-largest economy is vulnerable to a slowdown. Investors are awaiting the fate of an $85 billion monthly bond-buying program before the Fed&rsquo;s monetary policy meeting.

  	&ldquo;The week is going to be dominated by the Fed meeting and the taper,&rdquo; Neil Shearing, the chief emerging-markets economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London, said by phone. &ldquo;It is the weak Chinese data that is weighing on the Asian markets. The emerging European stocks have got a bit of a boost from the euro-zone data.&rdquo;

  	The U.S. central bank may decide to reduce stimulus at its meeting this week, according to 34 percent of economists in a Dec. 6 Bloomberg survey, up from 17 percent in a Nov. 8 poll.

  	Eight out of 10 industry groups in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index decreased, led by the gauge tracking consumer discretionary companies.

  	The Shanghai Composite Index slid 1.6 percent, the biggest drop in a month, after the preliminary reading of HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics&rsquo; PMI fell to 50.5 in December, compared with a median estimate of 50.9 in a Bloomberg survey.

  	A Markit Economics report showed that euro-area output rose to 52.7, a 31-month high, exceeding the estimate of 51.9 in a Bloomberg News survey of 35 economists. Gazprom, Russia&rsquo;s natural gas export monopoly, added 1.5 percent, leading gains on the Micex by index points. Brent crude rose the most in almost two weeks after Libyan rebels refused to hand over control of three oil ports to the government.

  	Hungary&rsquo;s BUX Index jumped 1.9 percent as OTP Bank Plc added 3.3 percent. Hungary&rsquo;s top court rejected blanket invalidation of foreign-currency denominated loans. The forint strengthened 0.6 percent versus the euro, the biggest advance among 24 developing-country peers monitored by Bloomberg.

  	The Ukrainian Equities Index rose 0.6 percent and the country&rsquo;s dollar-denominated bonds maturing in June 2014 climbed by the same amount, sending the yield down 1.38 percentage points to 15.89 percent. Ukraine is in talks with Russia for a loan of as much as $15 billion as President Viktor Yanukovych prepares to head to Moscow after a weekend of mass protest in Kiev, two people familiar with the negotiations said.

  	Turkey&rsquo;s lira appreciated 0.5 percent versus the dollar after data showed the nation&rsquo;s unemployment rate rose to 9.9 percent in September, below the 10 percent median estimate of three economists. The Chilean peso appreciated 0.6 percent as copper reached a six-week high in London. Chile is the world&rsquo;s largest producer of the metal.

  	The MSCI emerging-markets gauge has fallen 6.3 percent this year, bound for the steepest annual loss since 2011, while the MSCI World Index of developed-country stocks advanced 19 percent in 2013. The developing-nation index trades at 10.1 times projected 12-month earnings versus a multiple of 14.2 for the MSCI World, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.

  	SAIC Motor tumbled the most since March 4. Tianjin, a port city near Beijing, will issue license plates through auctions and lotteries, the state-run Xinhua News Agency said yesterday. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies listed in Hong Kong fell 0.9 percent.

  	Advanced Semiconductor Engineering Inc. (2311) tumbled 6.9 percent in Taipei, the biggest decline in percentage terms in the developing-nation gauge. Regulators ordered some machines at the company&rsquo;s plant in Chungli city, northern Taiwan, be idled for violating pollution laws. Taiwan&rsquo;s Taiex Index lost 0.8 percent.

  	The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt over U.S. Treasuries was little changed at 322 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. indexes.

