The Shanghai Free Trade Zone Seminar was Held in Manhattan\n\n

  	On 23rd January 2014, the China-U.S. Chamber of Commerce Seminar Series: Doing Business in China-&ldquo;The Launch of Shanghai Pilot Free Trade Zone&rdquo; was held in Manhattan New York. The establishment of Shanghai Free Trade Zone, which brought about new opportunities for cross-border trade and investment, has become important carrier of further intergradation of China in economic globalization. Professionals from finance, tax and legal industries attended the event.

  	China (Shanghai) Pilot Free-Trade Zone (SHFTZ) is a free-trade zone launched in Shanghai, China on September 29, 2013. The zone covers an area integrating four existing bonded zones-Waigaoqiao Free Trade Zone, Waiqiao Free Trade Logistics Park, Yangshan Free Trade Port Area and Pudong Airport Comprehensive Free Trade Zone. It is seen as a testing ground for a number of economic reforms.

  	Keynote speaker Prof. Sean C. Xia, Vice President of Shanghai Society of Pacific Rim Economic Development, spoke on the business innovation and opportunities in Shanghai Free Trade Zone. Prof. Xia pointed out that the core of SHFTZ is system innovation rather than policy preference and the highlights are investment management, trade regulation, financial innovation and comprehensive regulation. The financial system aims to support the development of the real economy, promote opening up capital account and promote the process of RMB internationalization; However, the risk control is still the main difficulty. He also mentioned that on the premise of network information security, SHFTZ allows foreign enterprises to run some specific forms of value-added telecommunications business.

  	Mr. Terence Liu, International Market Specialist from Citibank analyzed the critical meaning of cross-border use of RMB, RMB capital account convertibility, and interest rate liberalization for American clients. He also illustrated the anticipated account management system under SHFTZ and the differences between traditional China accounts. Mr. Liu mentioned that generally, SHFTZ firms would be able to conduct business with the rest of China and subs outside SHFTZ can potentially be benefited too.

  	Ms. Wei Chen, China Tax Partner from Deloitte Tax LLP, delivered speech on how to optimize the business model under this new policies environment from an American enterprise&rsquo;s point of view. She mentioned that setting up a company in SHFTZ is much more convenient now as the company can apply online and the approval process will take only a week, while the traditional process takes three to six months. She also analyzed that for enterprises wishing to expand business and increase efficiency, SHFTZ will simplify the outbound investment procedure, improve facilitate offshore trading and cross-border services, and lower the cost of offshore RMB financing.

  	This seminar is hosted by China-U.S. Chamber of Commerce and organized by Heinlyn LLC, which have received generous sponsor from Citibank and China Eastern Airlines Corporation Limited. In 2014, the China-U.S. Chamber of Commerce will also organize a US delegation to Shanghai to help US companies and investors explore more business opportunities in the Chinese market.

/vendors/cnusa.org/upload/image_4__meitu_3.jpg

/vendors/cnusa.org/upload/945BAA71-747E-4F2F-A7AE-119289373794.png

