U.S. Stocks Fluctuate on Economic Data Before Fed Meeting\n\n

  	Republished from Bloomberg&nbsp;By Nick Taborek &amp; Alexis Xydias - Oct 28, 2013

  	U.S. stocks fluctuated, after the Standard &amp; Poor&rsquo;s 500 Index rallied to a record, amid weaker-than-forecast data on factory output and housing before the Federal Reserve&rsquo;s policy meeting starting tomorrow.

  	Merck &amp; Co., slid 2.7 percent after reporting revenue that fell short of estimates. Apple Inc. gained 0.1 percent before the maker of iPhones and iPads releases results after the market close. Dendreon Corp. jumped 9 percent as people familiar with the matter said the drugmaker is seeking a buyer.

  	The S&amp;P 500 rose less than 0.1 percent to 1,760.17 at 11:42 a.m. in New York. The Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped 15.25 points, or 0.1 percent, to 15,555.03. Trading in S&amp;P 500 stocks was 9.3 percent below the 30-day average for this time of day.

  	&ldquo;Investors are going to be overly focused on this Fed meeting,&rdquo; Scott Wren, senior equity strategist at St. Louis, Missouri-based Wells Fargo Advisors LLC., which oversees about $1.3 trillion, said by phone. &ldquo;I suspect that when the statement is released there&rsquo;s going to be very little change to it.&rdquo;

  	Equities rose for a third week last week as Amazon.com Inc. and Microsoft Corp. posted sales that beat estimates, while a weaker-than-forecast jobs report and a drop in consumer confidence added to speculation the Fed will delay scaling back stimulus.

  	The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index (VIX), the gauge known as VIX that measures options traders&rsquo; estimate of future price swings in S&amp;P 500, has slid 18 percent so far this month. The gauge climbed 3.4 percent to 13.54 today.

  	Fed policy makers meet Tuesday and Wednesday when they will consider when to start trimming $85 billion of bond purchases. This month&rsquo;s budget impasse will spur Fed policy makers to wait until March to scale back the $85 billion of monthly bond purchases, a Bloomberg survey showed this month.

  	Output at factories rose 0.1 percent in September after a revised 0.5 percent gain in August that was smaller than initially estimated, figures from the Federal Reserve showed today in Washington. The median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg survey called for a 0.3 percent gain. Total industrial production, which also includes output by mines and utilities, advanced 0.6 percent as higher temperatures drove up electricity use.

  	Another report showed fewer Americans than forecast signed contracts to buy previously owned homes in September, the fourth straight month of declines, as rising mortgage rates slowed momentum in the housing market.

  	Earnings have beaten the average analyst estimate at 76 percent of the 248 S&amp;P 500 companies that have released results so far in the latest reporting season, data compiled by Bloomberg show.

  	Six out of 10 main industries in the S&amp;P 500 fell, as raw-materials producers lost 0.7 percent for the steepest decline. Consumer-staples companies rose 1.1 percent to pace gains.

  	Merck dropped 2.7 percent to $45.31. Third-quarter earnings, excluding one-time items, were 92 cents a share, beating by 5 cents the average of analyst estimate compiled by Bloomberg. Sales fell 4 percent to $11 billion, hurt by patent expirations and foreign currency exchange, the second-biggest U.S. drugmaker said. The revenue fell short of the $11.1 billion projected by analysts.

  	Apple added 0.1 percent to $526.70. The technology company will report an increase in iPhone sales after last month&rsquo;s release of new models, according to a Bloomberg survey of analysts. Apple may report fourth-quarter profit of $7.92 a share, the survey showed.

  	Burger King Worldwide Inc. rose 4.3 percent to $20.61. The fast food chain reported third-quarter revenue beat analyst estimates as overseas gains in comparable-store sales offset a decline in the U.S. and Canada.

  	Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. rallied 6.5 percent to $51.93, the highest since January 2002. The company&rsquo;s experimental rheumatoid arthritis drug reduced symptoms of the disease and was about as effective as a current standard treatment sold by AbbVie Inc., a study found.

  	Dendreon surged 9 percent to $2.76. The maker of Provenge prostate-cancer treatment is working with JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. to find suitors after sales of the prostate-cancer treatment failed to meet expectations, said one of the people, who asked not to be named as the process is private.

  	The company, whose market value once topped $7 billion, has generated about $2 billion in losses over the past decade. That market capitalization now hovers at about $400 million.

  	The smallest stocks are rallying almost twice as fast as bigger companies in the U.S., a bullish economic signal from businesses whose profits are most dependent on domestic demand.

  	Shares of companies from Rite Aid Corp. to Teledyne Technologies Inc. in the Russell 2000 Index (RTY) have advanced 32 percent in 2013, compared with 19 percent for the Dow. The spread is the widest for any year since 2003, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Three of the last four times small-caps outperformed by this much, the economy grew faster the next year and stocks stayed in a bull market for another year or more, based on data from the past 34 years.

  	Gains in smaller companies that are more dependent on U.S. growth show investors are betting the world&rsquo;s largest economy will pick up even after jobs growth slowed and the government shutdown weighed on gross domestic product. Smaller firms are surpassing analyst earnings estimates by more than Dow companies and are forecast to grow faster next year.

  	&ldquo;If you&rsquo;re focused on the U.S., and the U.S. is performing very well, then of course your revenues and earnings are going to be much better,&rdquo; Kully Samra of Charles Schwab Corp., which has $2.15 trillion of assets globally, said by phone Oct. 24 from London. &ldquo;Other regions are at different stages of dealing with structural issues, and the U.S. has already dealt with them.&rdquo;

/vendors/cnusa.org/upload/ifgY56P6NdWA.jpg

  	Photographer: Scott Eells/Bloomberg

  	p

