Chinese Stocks See Best Day Since 2012\n\n

  	According to WJS: After years of estrangement, China&rsquo;s small investors are rushing back into stocks, driving a rally that has made Shanghai the top-performing major market in the world this year.

  	Chinese stocks bolted higher Thursday&nbsp;to record their best one-day gain since 2012, adding juice to a seven-month rally that has brought one of the world&rsquo;s biggest markets back to life after years of dismal performance.

  	But even the most bullish investors have been surprised by the acceleration, with Shanghai jumping 4.3% Thursday to leapfrog India as the world&rsquo;s top major performing index so far this year. The market has charged higher in 10 of the past 11 trading days, notching up record trading volumes this week and gains this year of 37%.

  	Investors are latching on to a confluence of bullish factors as reasons to buy. Beijing&rsquo;s surprise move to cut interest rates last month has made banks and property developers some of the biggest winners while the opening of a trading link with Hong Kong that allows more stock investment in by foreigners has also attracted fresh cash.

  	Still, the rally is remarkable as it is in defiance of a slowdown in the world&rsquo;s second-biggest economy, expanding at its slowest pace in more than five years. Companies are struggling to keep up profit growth while a turndown in the housing market and a financial system laden with risks from a poorly regulated shadow banking sector is raising serious worries among economists.

  	The overwhelming driver of the stock market, though, is the return of fast-trading small investors chasing quick returns. Newly opened stock-trading accounts in China hit 370,071 last week, the highest level since the April 2011, according to data provider WIND Info. Much of the trading too is with margin trading where investors borrow to buy stocks, used to generate higher returns but brings bigger risks too.

  	The major worry is these momentum investors could exit just as sharply as they entered, similar to how the market shot up in the years before the global financial crisis, before crashing in 2008. Even today, the market is still only 47% of where it was when it peaked in 2007.

  	&ldquo;Everyone is talking about the stock market. I was eating dumplings at a street-side stall and the old lady running the place was buying Ping An shares on her mobile phone while cooking the dumplings,&rdquo; said Wu Yunfeng, a Shanghai-based retail investor, referring to one of China&rsquo;s biggest financial firms. He opened his own stock trading account for the first time in August.

  	Part of the appeal, too, is other investing alternatives that have long been popular are performing poorly. Property prices are falling, yields on wealth management products down, and even safe-haven gold is out of favor after its recent tumble.

  	Any sustained gains in the stock market will be a victory for Beijing, which has been struggling to turn around the stagnant market with a number of financial reforms. The buying could also further open up a source of funding for companies with more initial public offerings, especially for smaller firms that have been denied access to bank loans for years, as well as smoothing the process of privatizing parts of the nation&rsquo;s cumbersome state-owned enterprises.

  	&ldquo;This rally is long due,&rdquo; said Caroline Maurer, a portfolio manager at Henderson Global Investors, which manages $124 billion. &ldquo;The government is taking a more proactive approach to stabilize the economy while rolling out reforms across various industries. Domestic investors are gaining confidence.&rdquo;

  	Dozens of stocks on the Shanghai Composite hit the 10% limit on daily price movements Thursday, especially brokerages such as Citic Securities, Everbright Securities and China Merchants Securities. The positive mood lifted even beat-up blue chip energy stocks, which have suffered as a result of slowing growth and a slide in oil. Sinopec and PetroChina both soared 10% in Shanghai.

  	In Hong Kong, where intraday limits don&rsquo;t apply, stocks of mainland brokerages surged even further. A listed unit of Shanghai-based Shenyin &amp; Wanguo Securities Co. Ltd. jumped 39.3% on Thursday, capping a 66.8% gain during the past 11 trading sessions.

  	The explosive rally has pushed the average price-to-earnings ratio of stocks on the Shanghai Composite Index to 14.2 times earnings, though that is still far lower than the S&amp;P 500.

  	Many investors have grown hugely bullish since the rally began, betting that the rally is just at the beginning.

  	&ldquo;China&rsquo;s stock market has entered an unprecedented period of sustainable growth and it will likely last for 10 to 20 years,&rdquo; said Jiang Gui, general manager of private-equity firm Shanghai Simpleway Asset Management Co., which manages US$200 million in assets.

  	The impact has even spread to the offshore currency markets. The cost to borrow yuan in Hong Kong&rsquo;s money markets jumped to the highest in over 17 months as investors raced to grab Chinese currency, partly to invest in Shanghai through the stock trading link, though demand for the program is still limp.

  	Overall, demand for Chinese assets is healthy. China&rsquo;s biggest lender by assets, Industrial &amp; Commercial Bank of China Ltd., sold $5.69 billion of a type of risky bonds, with much of that denominated in yuan as part of efforts by banks to raise cash to bolster reserves as they grapple with souring loans.

