Heinlyn Announces the Launch of Heinlyn Investor Relations\n\n

  	NEW YORK. NY, September 23, 2016 &ndash; HEINLYN LLC (www.heinlyn.com), a leading global public relations firms with deep relationships in China, announced the opening of&nbsp; a new Investor Relations division with offices in New York and China.&nbsp; 

  	Leslie Wolf-Creutzfeldt, President of Heinlyn, said,&nbsp; &quot;With Chinese companies expected to invest up to $30 billion in the U.S in 2016, we are helping Chinese and US companies conduct meetings and due diligence in order to increase investment and partnerships.&nbsp; Therefore, we have built a dedicated practice headquartered in New York and Shanghai using the thousands of contacts that the China-U.S. Chamber of Commerce can provide in China and the US, including financial, legal and accounting experts. 

  	&ldquo;We are organizing a series of events and road shows which will showcase American companies and introduce them to Chinese investors&nbsp; who can provide sources of capital and support.&nbsp; In upcoming weeks and months, we are hosting events in conjunction with the China-U.S. Chamber of Commerce and welcoming delegations from China.&nbsp; These groups are seeking to forge ties with&nbsp; US companies in areas including&nbsp; real estate, technology, healthcare and clean energy.&nbsp; We anticipate a dynamic series of meetings with people who want to form meaningful relationships. We encourage companies with interest in doing business in China to contact Heinlyn.&rdquo; 

  	According to Mr. Zhiwen Wang, Chairman of the China-U.S. Chamber of Commerce, &quot;We are pleased to work with Heinlyn Investor Relations to insure that entrepreneurial and innovative companies can find partners and investors in China to support their growth. We will be hosting meetings, events, road shows, and gala forums in order to bring people together and increase business activity in productive ways.&quot; 

  	About HEINLYN: (www.heinlyn.com) is a global public relations firm specializing in branding, strategic communications and investor relations, assists companies to meet partners that can help them to grow and achieve their objectives. Working with the China-U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Heinlyn reaches Chinese investors looking for opportunities in the US.&nbsp; Heinlyn provides services to companies in real estate, banking, technology, healthcare, clean energy sectors. 

  	About China-U.S. Chamber of Commerce:(cnusa.org) The China-U.S. Chamber of Commerce (www.cnusa.org) has been providing its members and the general public with firsthand information relative to how to succeed at conducting business in both China and the United States for decades.&nbsp; The China-U.S. Chamber of Commerce has held various bilateral exchange activities including international investment and trade forums, business conferences and member enterprise&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; information exchange activities. These efforts are provided to continuously improve the business investment and trade&nbsp; environment of China and the United States and to achieve a win-win solution. 

  	&nbsp;

  	Forward-Looking Statements: Statements in this press release relating to plans, strategies, projections of results, and other statements that are not descriptions of historical facts may be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and the Securities Act of 1934. Forward-looking information is inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, and actual results could differ materially from those currently anticipated due to a number of factors. Although the company&#39;s management believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, the company cannot guarantee future results, performance or achievements. The company has no obligation to update these forward-looking statements. 

  	&nbsp;

  	Media Contact: 

  	Leslie Creutzfeldt 

  	[email&#160;protected] 

  	917-854-4726 

