Consumer sentiment holds up even as economic growth slows\n\n

  	Chinese consumer confidence remained high in the third quarter even though economicgrowth fell to the slowest pace since the 2008 global financial crisis.

  	Research firm Nielsen said on Thursday that its confidence index of Chinese consumersstood at 111, marking the fourth consecutive quarter at that level.GDP growth in the third quarter was 7.3 percent, down 0.2point from the second quarter, the National Bureau ofStatistics has reported.

  	&quot;The number is a very encouraging sign for the futureconsumer-led economy we are all looking at,&quot; said PatrickDodd, managing director of Nielsen China.

  	&quot;When we look at the consumer confidence index, we arereally looking at people&#39;s intentions on consumption. Andwhen you look at GDP, that is just a much wider case.There are some correlations, but I would not look at themtoo closely,&quot; Dodd said.

  	The consumer confidence index is based on three keyfactors: job prospects, personal finances and willingness tospend, said Dodd.

  	&quot;Wage inflation is moving at a very nice pace, and with alow inflation rate, disposable income is at a very goodlevel. The government focuses on jobs across all cities, so the job prospects for peopleacross all tiers are looking quite bright.

  	&quot;This combination of more disposable income, low inflation and job prospects being high allcontribute to the high level of consumer confidence,&quot; he said.

  	According to the NBS, the real disposable incomes of urban residents in 28 provincial-levelareas rose by 6.9 percent during the first three quarters of this year.

  	The report also found that: &middot;Consumer confidence levels among city tiers and regions have been converging since thefirst quarter of 2014.

  	&middot;There are four super urban clusters that are strategically crucial to China&#39;s economic growth:Shanghai-Hangzhou-Nanjing, Beijing-Tianjin, Guangzhou-Shenzhen and Jinan-Qingdao.

  	&middot;The key drivers of rising willingness to spend vary among regions, while different regionsalso tend to have somewhat different spending patterns. For example, consumers in richernorthern cities spend more on products that will improve their life quality, such as clothing,dining out and telephone fees.

  	&quot;Spending decisions really depend on the development status of consumers in differentregions and areas in such a dynamic market as China,&quot; Dodd said.

  	&quot;If you just take a look at what happened on Tuesday, the Singles&#39; Day, it is a good indicationthat people are willing to spend their money on products they desire.&quot;

  	During the annual Nov 11 Singles&#39; Day e-commerce event, online sales on Alibaba GroupHolding Ltd&#39;s Tmall.com, Taobao.com and its overseas outlets topped 57.1 billion yuan ($9.34billion).

