U.S. Stocks Advance Amid Confidence, Jobless Claims Data\n\n

  	Republished from Bloomberg by&nbsp;Lu Wang &amp; Aubrey Pringle - Nov 27, 2013

  	U.S. stocks rose, with benchmark indexes heading for a third straight monthly gain, as an unexpected drop in jobless claims and better-than-forecast confidence data indicated the economic recovery continued.

  	Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) gained 8.7 percent after the maker of personal computers posted revenue and profit that topped analysts&rsquo; estimates. Analog Devices Inc. (ADI) slipped 6.4 percent after predicting first-quarter profit that missed analysts&rsquo; projections.

  	The Standard &amp; Poor&rsquo;s 500 rose 0.2 percent to 1,806.85 at 10 a.m. in New York. The Dow Jones Industrial Average added 19.75 points, or 0.1 percent, to 16,092.55. Trading in S&amp;P 500 stocks was 19 percent below the 30-day average at this time of the day. U.S. equity markets will be closed tomorrow for the Thanksgiving holiday.

  	&ldquo;It just continues to look pretty good and it would not surprise if we saw acceleration in growth as we go into 2014,&rdquo; Mackintosh Pulsifer, who helps oversee $15 billion as vice chairman and chief investment officer at Fiduciary Trust Co. International, said in a phone interview. The reports continue &ldquo;to support the notion that we&rsquo;ve moved from recovery into expansion. With each data point that comes in there&rsquo;s nothing that&rsquo;s signaling the direction is changing,&rdquo; he said.

  	The S&amp;P 500 has climbed 2.8 percent this month as data on housing and retail sales exceeded economists&rsquo; forecasts, stoking optimism that the world&rsquo;s largest economy will sustain growth when the Federal Reserve starts reducing its monetary stimulus.

  	Data today showed fewer Americans than projected filed applications for unemployment benefits last week, a sign that the labor market is showing resilience.

  	Separate readings indicated orders for U.S. durable goods dropped in October, reflecting a broad-based retreat and signaling the government shutdown hurt business confidence, while the MNI Chicago Report business barometer fell to 63 in November from 65.9 a month earlier. Results above 50 signal expansion.

  	The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of consumer sentiment in November unexpectedly rose to 75.1 from 73.2 a month earlier. The median forecast of 65 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for 73.1 after a preliminary reading of 72. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index showed confidence among U.S. consumers rose last week to the highest level since early October as tensions in Washington calmed and hiring improved.

  	&ldquo;Things are slowly improving, confidence is coming back,&rdquo; Eric Marshall, who oversees $1.5 billion as president and portfolio manager at Hodges Capital Management in Dallas, said in a phone interview. &ldquo;Stocks may still be attractive relative to where the interest rate environment now. Going forward, we can still get a little more multiple expansion, but not much. The real driver for stocks will be earnings.&rdquo;

  	The S&amp;P 500 has rallied 26 percent this year, heading for the biggest annual gain since 1998, as the Fed continued the pace of monetary stimulus. The rally pushed equity valuations near their highest level since the end of 2009. The S&amp;P 500 trades for about 16.3 times its companies&rsquo; projected earnings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.

  	Three rounds of Fed bond purchases have helped push the S&amp;P 500 up more than 166 percent from a bear-market low in 2009. Fed policy makers have been scrutinizing data to determine whether the economy is strong enough to withstand a reduction in their $85 billion a month in bond purchases.

  	Four out of five investors expect the Fed to delay a decision to begin reducing the stimulus until March 2014 or later, according to a Bloomberg Global Poll on Nov. 19.

  	The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, slid 2.7 percent today to 12.47. The gauge of S&amp;P 500 options known as the VIX is down 31 percent this year.

  	Seven of 10 S&amp;P 500 industry groups gained as technology companies rose the most, climbing 0.8 percent.

  	Hewlett-Packard increased 8.7 percent to $27.26, the highest level since August. Chief Executive Officer Meg Whitman got a boost in her turnaround efforts last quarter as businesses snapped up technology products. Results were buoyed by corporate demand for servers, personal computers and networking equipment.

  	Analog Devices slipped 6.4 percent to $46.75 for the biggest drop in the S&amp;P 500. Adjusted earnings will be between 44 cents and 52 cents a share in the first quarter, the company said in a statement. That compares with the average analyst projection of 56 cents.

