U.S. Stock-Index Futures Advance Amid Economic Optimism\n\n

  	Republished form Bloomberg News,By Sofia Horta e Costa &nbsp; &nbsp; Feb 24, 2014   

  	U.S. stock-index futures gained, after the Standard &amp; Poor&rsquo;s 500 Index closed within 1 percent of its record, as investors bet that the economy can withstand the slowing down of the Federal Reserve &rsquo;s bond-buying program. 

  	Comcast Corp. added 1.5 percent as people familiar with the matter said Netflix Inc. agreed to pay for direct access to the cable company&rsquo;s broadband network. Netflix added 1.2 percent. Humana Inc. paced declines among health insurers as the U.S. government proposed cutting payments made under the Medicare Advantage program for 2015. 

  	Futures on the S&amp;P 500 &nbsp;expiring next month increased 0.3 percent to 1,839.70 at 8:48 a.m. in New York . The equity benchmark fell 0.1 percent last week, leaving it 0.7 percent &nbsp;from its record and its level at the end of last year. Dow Jones Industrial Average contracts added 34 points, or 0.2 percent, to 16,127 today. 

  	&ldquo;You can see the underlying strength of the market because the S&amp;P 500 (SPX)&nbsp; &nbsp;is so close to its all-time high, but investors are not complacent,&rdquo; Heinz-Gerd Sonnenschein, an equity-market strategist at&nbsp;Deutsche Postbank AG, said by phone from Bonn, Germany . &ldquo;We&rsquo;re in a bullish but healthy market. We still need to see hard data confirming the state of the U.S. economy . The Fed has hinted that growth is on the right track, and it&rsquo;s important that the latest figures support that.&rdquo; 

  	The S&amp;P 500 slumped as much as 5.8 percent after reaching the highest level since its inception on Jan. 15 as investor concern about continued cuts in the Fed&rsquo;s monthly asset purchases fueled a rout in emerging markets . The index has rebounded &nbsp;5.4 percent from its low on Feb. 3. It climbed to within six points of the 1,848.38 record on each day last week, without breaking through to a new high. 

  	Fed Chair Janet Yellen &nbsp;said this month that the economy has strengthened enough to withstand stimulus cuts, adding that only a notable change to the outlook would prompt the central bank to slow the pace of tapering. Yellen, in her first global forum as Fed chair, won praise at the Group of 20 nations meeting over the weekend for helping smooth emerging-market concerns as the U.S. tapers monetary stimulus. 

  	Three rounds of stimulus have helped push the S&amp;P 500 as much as 173 percent&nbsp;higher from a 12-year low in 2009.  

  	The Commerce Department publishes its revised estimate for fourth-quarter growth on Feb. 28. The report will probably show that gross domestic product expanded 2.5 percent at an annualized pace, less than the government had forecast, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists. 

  	Investors have dismissed worse-than-forecast U.S. economic data over the past two weeks, speculating that severe winter weather explains the weakness in reports such as housing and hiring. The Bloomberg ECO U.S. Surprise Index, which measures how much recent data has beaten or missed economists&rsquo; estimates, fell to minus 0.429 on Feb. 21, the lowest since August 2011. 

  	Comcast added 1.5 percent to $51.80. Netflix, the world&rsquo;s largest subscription video-streaming service, agreed to pay Comcast millions of dollars annually to deliver its content with better quality and speed, said one of the three people, who asked not to be identified because the terms are private. The companies announced a multiyear agreement in a statement yesterday without disclosing the terms. 

  	Netflix gained 1.2 percent to $437.40.  

  	Jos. A. Bank Clothiers Inc. rallied 7.4 percent to $59.15. Men&rsquo;s Wearhouse Inc. raised its offer for the company 10 percent to $63.50 a share. The bid would increase to $65 if Jos. A. Bank ended the Eddie Bauer deal and let Men&rsquo;s Wearhouse conduct limited due diligence. 

  	Men&rsquo;s Wearhouse is seeking to end a takeover battle that Jos. A. Bank started in October with its own offer for its larger rival. Men&rsquo;s Wearhouse rejected that offer and has countered with its own bids for Jos. A. Bank, which have been rejected as too low. Jos. A. Bank earlier this month agreed to buy Eddie Bauer in a deal that may make the combined company too big for Men&rsquo;s Wearhouse to acquire. 

  	Men&rsquo;s Wearhouse climbed 6.5 percent to $48.02.  

  	Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) climbed 1.5 percent to $26.98 after the second-largest U.S. natural gas producer said it plans to either sell or spin off its oilfield-services unit . About 35 percent of the unit&rsquo;s drilling rigs work for companies other than its parent, according to a statement. 

  	Humana dropped 1.5 percent to $101.30. Health insurers participating in the program for elderly Americans face a payment cut of about 3.55 percent next year, the U.S. government said on Feb. 21. The industry still has to negotiate over the reductions, which only become final on April 7. UnitedHealth Group Inc. slipped 1.6 percent to $72.65, while Aetna Inc. lost 1.3 percent to $69.50. 

  	&nbsp;

  	&nbsp;

  	&nbsp;

