In China, Risking a Chain Reaction of Default\n\n

  	From New York Times

  	A network of loan guarantees set up to improve companies&rsquo;access to credit in one of China&rsquo;s richest districts is creating new risks of default as some debts sour. 

  	The pattern suggests ways that privately owned operations are bearing the brunt of an economic slowdown. 

  	Chinese media have reported on a credit crunch developing among steel and textile manufacturers in Hangzhou, south of Shanghai in Zhejiang Province, as the failure of some to repay loans pushes their burden onto healthier companies. 

  	Hangzhou is part of the Yangtze River Delta, an engine of growth during China&rsquo;s boom years but now the source of a third of nonperforming loans in the country. 

  	The government ranks the city&rsquo;s Xiaoshan district as China&rsquo;s seventh wealthiest. One of the main drivers of its prosperity &mdash;small, privately owned companies &mdash;is now a handicap. 

  	&ldquo;The textile industry is not a big borrower in the banking sector. The problems that we see arise when mutual guarantees go bad and textile firms are dragged in,&rdquo;said Robert Yang, assistant to the president at the China National Textile &amp; Apparel Council. 

  	Concern about the huge growth in Chinese corporate debt since the global financial crisis has intensified this year as the government has allowed market forces to play a bigger role in deciding winners and losers. 

  	Private companies often struggle to obtain credit from state-owned banks, which prefer to lend to state-owned companies. 

  	That trend has worsened as economic growth has slowed, credit conditions have tightened, and the authorities have worked to reduce excessive investment and overcapacity in some sectors. 

  	Steel and textile manufacturers in Xiaoshan, like other private companies around the delta, sought to overcome such obstacles by providing loan guarantees for one another to gain bank credit. 

  	Now defaults by a few companies threaten a chain reaction that could ensnare even profitable companies, as the guarantees have left them on the hook for debts of their bankrupt competitors. 

  	&ldquo;The risk from guarantee chains is still rather large,&rdquo;the Zhejiang branch of the China Banking Regulatory Commission warned in February. 

  	An unlisted producer of polyester yarn, Hangzhou Jianjie Chemical Fiber, was recently liquidated after the default of another textile producer whose debts Jianjie had guaranteed, according to China Business News, a national newspaper. Jianjie&rsquo;s collapse in turn affected five other textile firms. In all, 3 billion renminbi, or about $480 million, in bank loans to the six companies are at risk, the paper said. 

  	After Jianjie Chemical Fiber &ldquo;went bankrupt and was liquidated, companies with mutual guarantees had to take on more debt,&rdquo;the paper quoted Zhu Rujiang, director of the Xiaoshan District Funding Chain Risk Prevention and Mitigation Leadership Group, as saying. 

  	&ldquo;They can still handle this debt, and they will have no trouble surviving, but a key requirement is that banks can&rsquo;t withdraw their loans,&rdquo;he said, according to the paper. 

  	Mr. Zhu&rsquo;s group was set up to mediate between banks and companies, according to the district government&rsquo;s website. Mr. Zhu declined to comment when reached by phone. 

  	China Business News also reported that Hangzhou Zhongxin Steel Structure Manufacture, which makes scaffolding, had shut down and could place at risk 1.2 billion renminbi in bank loans to four other companies. Zhongxin, whose website is no longer accessible, could not be reached for comment. 

  	&ldquo;The crisis of mutual guarantees is very serious, and there is no good solution for this problem,&rdquo;said Zhou Dewen, vice chairman of the China Association of Small and Medium Enterprises in Wenzhou, another prosperous city in Zhejiang. 

