Cultural Trade Promotion Meeting for Jilin Province of China\n\n

 	The Cultural Trade Promotion Meeting for Jilin Province was held in March 21st, 2014 in Manhattan, New York. The meeting provided the platform for the cultural industry entities from Jilin Province to demonstrate their products and services to their fellow equivalent corporations in U.S. market, develop the new cooperation with them, and enlarge the scale of the cultural trade of Jilin Province of China.

 	The meeting was organized by Heilyn LLC, and supported by&nbsp; the Economic and Commercial Office of the Consulate General of the People&rsquo;s Republic of China in New Yrok, China-U.S. Chamber of Commerce and Auri International.

 	Mr. Tao Xu, the Deputy Director from the Department of Commerce of Jilin Province along with representatives from ten cultural trade enterprises from China attended the meeting. Mr. Xu has addressed the opening remarks to welcome all the guests for participating. Seven enterprises from Jilin gave the presentation to introduce their companies and the products and service they provide. The enterprises presented were various from the manufactures of paper cutting, boat crafts, fishbone painting, etc. to the technology companies, which produces original Chinese animation, and which invests in latest media technologies.

 	From the U.S. side, Mrs. Yi Liu, the Counsellor from the Economic and Commerce office of the Consulate General of the People&rsquo;s Republic of China in New York given out the opening speech to welcome all the guests from Jilin Province. After that, Mr. John Liu, the former New York City Comptroller talked about the potential development opportunities for the Chinese enterprises in U.S. and encouraged those enterprises to keep working on the promotion of the Chinese cultural trade in international level.

 	During the second section of the meeting, two entities, represented the U.S. enterprises, addressed the presentation. Ms. Yin Hou, the production manager from GiGi New York talked about the essential role that Chinese manufactures play in providing trainings and factorial sources to U.S. companies, like GiGi New York. Mr. Chuck Roberts, the managing partner from Durobi introduced several important steps need to follow for a foreign enterprises to enlarge its business to U.S. market.

 	As part of the closing remarks, Ms. Willow Chang, the Director of China Institute introduced the organization, and its effort in advancing a deeper understanding of China through programs in education, culture, business and art in the belief that cross-cultural understanding will strengthen our global community. &nbsp;And Ms. Mingyi Xu from China-U.S. Chamber of Commerce talked about the service provided by the organization, and welcome all the Chinese enterprises for further communication and cooperation.

 	The promotion meeting was a great success. It reached its goal in promoting the communication and cooperation between China and U.S. in cultural trade industry.

