Alibaba Sheds More Light on Its Controlling Partnership in I.P.O. Document\n\n

  	&nbsp;(From New York Times)For weeks, potential investors have wondered who would be in the select inner circle running the Alibaba Group, the Chinese e-commerce giant. 

  	On Monday, the company publicly disclosed the names of all 27 individuals for the first time, as part of its amended initial public offering prospectus. Among them are several members of its senior management team.

  	And the company showed another jump in profitability in its latest fiscal quarter.

  	The revised document is the latest step Alibaba has taken on the road to its highly anticipated market debut, which is on track to become one of the biggest in corporate history. The process has slowly revealed more information about one of China&rsquo;s biggest Internet players, especially as it continues to battle for dominance against online rivals like Tencent.

  	The identities of the partnership had been one of the biggest questions since Alibaba first filed to go public last month. The individuals, led by Jack Ma, a company founder, will essentially control the online market operator through their ability to nominate a majority of directors.

  	Alibaba&rsquo;s insistence on the model cost it the chance of listing on the Hong Kong stock exchange, which requires a one-share-per-vote system. But the company has contended that the setup is not as severe as a dual-class stock plan in which founders have a significant voting advantage over others.

  	One significant aspect regarding the partners list is that about one quarter of the people are not primarily employed by Alibaba itself, but by the holding company for Alibaba&rsquo;s sprawling Internet finance businesses, including the online payment processing titan Alipay. That second company, known as Zhejiang Alibaba E-Commerce, will not be included in the forthcoming I.P.O.

  	Alibaba&rsquo;s decision to give such influential places on its partner committee to people who are not primarily employed by the I.P.O. candidate is partly a reflection of the importance of Alipay, but also the result of a restructuring three years ago that triggered a falling out with Yahoo.

  	Alipay handled 78 percent of the gross merchandise sales on Alibaba&rsquo;s Chinese retail websites in the most recent fiscal year, according to Monday&rsquo;s filing. Including business from Alibaba and external customers, Alipay processed transactions worth $623 billion in the 12 months ended March 31.

  	Alipay was previously part of Alibaba, but was transferred out of the e-commerce group in 2011 by Mr. Ma, in a move that raised hackles at Yahoo at the time. Today, Mr. Ma owns nearly half of Zhejiang Alibaba.

  	The amended prospectus also listed all of Alibaba&rsquo;s directors for the first time, beyond Mr. Ma and the executive vice chairman, Joseph C. Tsai. The group includes a Yahoo co-founder, Jerry Yang; Chee Hwa Tung, the first chief executive of Hong Kong after its transfer of control from Britain to China; and&nbsp;J. Michael Evans, a former high-ranking Goldman Sachs banker who was once considered a potential candidate to run the Wall Street firm.

  	The company also disclosed that revenue in the quarter ended March 31 rose 38 percent, to $1.9 billion, from the period a year earlier, while profit rose 31 percent, to nearly $884 million.

  	Alibaba also disclosed the total value of goods sold on its two main market places, Taobao and Tmall, for the first time. As of March 31, Taobao was far bigger, responsible for 68 percent of items sold on the company&rsquo;s platforms.

  	Other important details, including whether Alibaba will list on the New York Stock Exchange or on the Nasdaq stock market and how much the company will seek in its offering, remain undisclosed.

