Successful Financing Opportunities in 2014 - How to Access Growing China-U.S. Financial Capital Flows\n\n

  	The China-U.S. Chamber of Commerce Seminar Series: &ldquo;Successful Financing Opportunities in 2014&mdash;&mdash;How to Access Growing China-U.S. Financial Capital Flows&rdquo; was held in Manhattan New York on February 27, 2014. The seminar provided new insight into relationship between China and U.S., talked about the recent economic pattern of China and U.S., and discussed the opportunities and challenges in both China and U.S. in the coming year.  

  	Andrew Hall&nbsp;from NASDAQ OMX Group presented Nasdaq&#39;s appraisal of opportunities and challenges in both China and the US in the coming year. &nbsp;Professor Charles Tienfrom CUNY Hunter College provided new insight into relations between the two super powers and what we can expect in 2014 in terms of understanding developments between governments, corporations and citizens of the two countries. Michael S. Segal, the president of Halcyon Cabot Partners talked about opportunities for Chinese companies to raise money in the United States and for American investors and companies to find opportunities in China. Dajiang Guo, the CEO of CITIC Securities International USA LLC analyzed China bond market&rsquo;s size and performance. China-U.S Chamber of Commerce authorized TAI HONG (Shanghai) Enterprise Co., LTD as Shanghai General representative office. 

  	During the seminar, Prof. Tien analyzed the current policy and economic situation between China and U.S. He pointed out &ldquo;Even in China, policy is guided by public opinion&rdquo;. The U.S. policy toward China is ambivalent. 86% of Americans keep positive feelings toward China because they concerned about trade relations with China, which will impact the U.S. economy, and 1.2 billion Chinese customers, who is vitally important to the U.S. today. However, 87% of American keeps negative feelings to China because they saw China critical and important threat to U.S. in the next 10 years. 

  	Moreover, although more than 48% of Chinese sees U.S. as the world&rsquo;s leading economic power, like American ideas on democracy, and admire U.S. science and technology, Chinese have more negative feeling on U.S. and less confident for President Obama in the past 5 years.  

  	Andrew Hall presented Nasdaq&#39;s appraisal of opportunities and challenges in both China and the US in the coming year.&nbsp;He mentioned that 117 Chinese corporations have already listed in NASDAQ currently, and predicted 20 more corporations would go public in NASDAQ in 2014. Andrew Hall also indicated that NASDQ annually delisting stocks are actually less than listing shares. It is not because many companies are delisted from the market themselves, but every year, there are a lot of acquisitions, which led some small corporations to delist their stocks. But most of the stocks listed in NASDAQ in 2013 made a good return in their first year, including Chinese enterprises.  

  	Michael Segal, who has over forty years of elite leadership experience in the financial community. He was optimistic on the long-term tendency of RMB, just as he predicted the Swiss Franc exchange rate with U.S. dollar would be 1to1 in 1970s, Mr. Segal believes in the next three decades, the RMB against the U.S. dollar would also reach 1 to 1. In the energy and commodity markets, Mr. Segal said, China from 2003 to 2012, oil consumption rose by 84%, natural gas consumption rose by 351%, while silver also rose by 75%. He also predicted that due to the Chinese A-share listing need to face 2 years approval process, more Chinese companies will choose to be listed in U.S.&nbsp; in the coming year.  

  	Dajiang Guo currently serves as CEO of CITIC Securities International USA, LLC, and is managing director of strategy and planning department of CITIC Securities Company Limited.&nbsp; Previously, he worked at&nbsp;CICC US Securities and CICC HK Securities.&nbsp;  

  	During the event, Mr. Guo mentioned three major investment themes, which is need to focus on recently, including consumer spending, O2O with the Internet reform, and SOE reform. He also pointed out Chinese bond market ranked No.1 in Asia, and No.3 in the world in term of market size. Moreover, the credit products (including corporate bonds, CP, MTN, etc.) grow rapidly. In 2013, the credit products represent 42% of the total issuance. 

  	&nbsp; 

  	&nbsp; Media Guests  &nbsp;   

  	&nbsp; 

  	Forbes, Phoenix, Caixin.com. China Daily, The China Press, CBN 

  	&nbsp;

  	&nbsp;

  	&nbsp;&nbsp;

