U.S. Stocks Rise on Earnings as Investors Assess Data\n\n

  	Republished from Bloomberg By&nbsp;Lu Wang - Oct 24, 2013

  	U.S. stocks rose, after the Standard &amp; Poor&rsquo;s 500 Index fell for the first time in six days, as corporate earnings surpassed estimates and investors weighed manufacturing data from the world&rsquo;s two largest economies.

  	Homebuilders rallied 2.9 percent as a group after PulteGroup Inc.&rsquo;s profit surged. McKesson Corp. jumped 4.3 percent after boosting its annual forecast and agreeing to buy Germany&rsquo;s Celesio AG for about 3.9 billion euros ($5.4 billion). Citrix Systems Inc. climbed 4.8 percent as it raised its share buyback. Dow Chemical Co. slipped 2.8 percent as earnings missed estimates.

  	The S&amp;P 500 (SPX) rose 0.2 percent to 1,750.16 at 11:18 a.m. in New York. The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 76.56 points, or 0.5 percent to 15,489.89. Trading in S&amp;P 500 stocks was 24 percent above the 30-day average during this time of day.

  	&ldquo;We are right at the heart of earnings season so everything at this point of time is very earnings driven,&rdquo; Mark Spellman, a portfolio manager at Value Line Funds in New York, said by phone. His firm manages $2.3 billion. &ldquo;Earnings have been as good if not slightly better than expected. We&rsquo;ve done a lot on the cost side. What people want to see is continued progress in the sales line.

  	&rdquo; The S&amp;P 500 has gained 4 percent in October as lawmakers agreed to raise the U.S. borrowing limit, avoiding a possible debt default. The benchmark gauge fell 0.5 percent from a record yesterday, halting five days of gains, as forecasts at companies from Caterpillar Inc. to Broadcom Corp. disappointed investors.

  	Amazon.com Inc. and Microsoft Corp. are among 47 companies in the S&amp;P 500 posting results today, the busiest day of the third-quarter season. Of the 212 companies that have released earnings so far, 76 percent exceeded analysts&rsquo; predictions for profit, while 53 percent beat sales estimates, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.

  	Earnings for members of the gauge probably increased 2.5 percent in the third quarter as sales climbed 2.2 percent, according to analysts&rsquo; estimates compiled by Bloomberg.

  	&ldquo;We want to look at the quality of these earnings as far as looking at revenues and making sure there is actual growth and not just manufactured growth,&rdquo; David James, director of research at Alpha, Ohio-based James Investment Research Inc., said in a phone interview. His firm oversees more than $4.5 billion.

  	Better-than-expected earnings and monetary stimulus from the Federal Reserve have driven the S&amp;P 500 up 23 percent this year. The budget dispute weighed on fourth-quarter growth and will prompt Fed policy makers to wait until March before starting to scale back the $85 billion of monthly bond purchases, a Bloomberg survey showed last week.

  	U.S. manufacturing expanded in October at a slower pace than forecast, according to the Markit Economics preliminary index. While growth in Euro-area services and factory output also missed economists&rsquo; projections, manufacturing output in China strengthened more than anticipated, a sign the recovery in the world&rsquo;s second-largest economy is gaining momentum.

  	Consumer confidence dropped last week to an eight-month low as Americans grew increasingly concerned the budget standoff in Washington will damage the world&rsquo;s largest economy, according to the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index.

  	Government data showed trade deficit in the U.S. was little changed in August and more Americans than forecast filed applications for unemployment benefits last week.

  	The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index (VIX), the gauge of S&amp;P 500 options known as the VIX, fell 1.4 percent to 13.23 today, extending its decline for the month to 20 percent.

  	Five of 10 main industries in the S&amp;P 500 advanced today, with producers of consumer discretionary products adding 0.7 percent to lead gains. Telephone shares fell 0.8 percent for the worst performance, as AT&amp;T Inc. slumped 1.5 percent to $34.75.

  	The S&amp;P Supercomposite Homebuilding Index jumped 2.9 for a third straight gain, as all its 11 members climbed. PulteGroup, the second-largest U.S. homebuilder by market value, surged 5.9 percent to $17.78 after recording a tax-related gain and rising revenue from house sales.

  	McKesson rose 4.3 percent to $149.18. The largest U.S. pharmaceutical distributor said profit for the fiscal year will be at least $8.40 a share. That beat the average analyst estimate of $8.33 in a Bloomberg survey. The company said it will acquire the 50.01 percent stake in Celesio from Franz Haniel &amp; Cie GmbH, a family-owned investment company, for 23 euros a share.

  	Citrix Systems Inc., the maker of software that lets people access work files from home, rallied 4.8 percent to $58.76 after saying it plans to buy back as much as $500 million in shares.

  	Dow Chemical slipped 2.8 percent to $39.91. The largest U.S. chemical maker by revenue said profit trailed analysts&rsquo; estimates as the unit that makes epoxy products encountered higher costs and lower sales volumes.

  	Symantec Corp. (SYMC) sank 11 percent to $22.01. The maker of security software forecast sales and profit that fell short of analysts&rsquo; estimates.

  	Akamai Technologies Inc., slumped 9.8 percent to $46.79. The company, which helps customers deliver online content faster, forecast fourth-quarter revenue and profit that fell short of some projections.

  	Xerox Corp. fell 8.9 percent to $9.78 after the printer and copier pioneer cut its earnings forecast for 2013.

