U.S. Stock Futures Decline on Fed Speculation, Earnings\n\n

  	Republished from Bloomberg&nbsp;By Nick Taborek &amp; Sofia Horta e Costa - Oct 31, 2013

  	U.S. stock futures fell, after the first drop in five days for the Standard &amp; Poor&rsquo;s 500 Index, as the Federal Reserve fueled speculation it will cut stimulus in coming months and investors assessed corporate earnings.

  	Starbucks Corp. slipped 2.4 percent after the largest coffee-shop chain reported slower sales growth in Asia. Visa Inc. lost 2.5 percent after the bank-card network said revenue rose less than projected. Expedia Inc. rallied 17 percent after posting earnings that exceeded analysts&rsquo; estimates.

  	Futures on the S&amp;P 500 expiring in December fell 0.2 percent to 1,757.70 at 9 a.m. in New York. Dow Jones Industrial Average contracts lost 10 points, or 0.1 percent, to 15,543.

  	&ldquo;The market is re-rating expectations to maybe earlier Fed tapering than consensus,&rdquo; Andres Garcia-Amaya, New York-based global market strategist at JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co.&rsquo;s mutual funds unit, said in a phone interview today. His firm oversees $400 billion. &ldquo;The Fed was a little bit more hawkish than people expected, not a lot, but incrementally more hawkish.&rdquo;

  	The S&amp;P 500 fell 0.5 percent from a record yesterday, halting four days of gains, as the Fed fueled bets it may begin to cut stimulus in the coming months. The central bank maintained $85 billion in monthly bond purchases, saying that while the economy shows signs of &ldquo;underlying strength&rdquo; it needs to see more evidence of sustainable improvement.

  	Economists at Citigroup Inc. and Barclays Plc said yesterday&rsquo;s Fed policy statement opens the possibility of reduced bond purchases as soon as December. The odds of a taper in January rose to 45 percent, from 25 percent before the decision, according to Citigroup. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg Oct. 17-18 had predicted the Fed would begin paring stimulus in March.

  	&ldquo;Although I still think there&rsquo;s a higher probability of March, just the fact that they left open the possibility of December, the market didn&rsquo;t obviously like that,&rdquo; said Garcia-Amaya. &ldquo;Once they do start tapering, I think the market will start trading more on fundamentals, and fundamentals look fairly resilient.&rdquo;

  	Fed stimulus has helped propel the S&amp;P 500 higher by more than 160 percent from a 12-year low in 2009. The gauge has surged 4.9 percent in October, heading for the biggest monthly gain since July, as lawmakers ended a 16-day government shutdown and agreed to extend the U.S. borrowing authority, avoiding a possible debt default.

  	Data today showed fewer Americans filed applications for unemployment benefits last week as a backlog in California&rsquo;s reporting cleared. Jobless claims decreased by 10,000 to 340,000 in the week ended Oct. 26 from 350,000 the prior period, the Labor Department reported today in Washington. The median forecast of 49 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a decrease to 338,000.

  	Exxon Mobil, MasterCard and American International Group Inc. are among 34 companies in the S&amp;P 500 reporting results today. Of the 353 companies that have reported results this season, 76 percent exceeded analysts&rsquo; predictions for profit, while 53 percent beat sales estimates, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.

  	Profits for members of the gauge probably increased 3.7 percent in the third quarter as sales climbed 2.4 percent, according to analysts&rsquo; estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Analysts project earnings will rise 7.5 percent in the final quarter, and 8.3 percent in the first three months of 2014.

  	&ldquo;Company outlooks are still quite cautious,&rdquo; Alexandra Walker-Ott, an equity fund manager at Swiss &amp; Global Asset Management Ltd., said by phone from Zurich. &ldquo;People are pricing strong earnings accelerations in the next few quarters, so there will inevitably be downgrades to expectations. The market isn&rsquo;t cheap anymore and we may have a healthy correction soon.&rdquo;

  	The S&amp;P 500 is trading at 15.9 times its companies&rsquo; estimated earnings, the highest valuation since the start of 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.

  	Starbucks slipped 2.4 percent to $78.90. Sales at stores open at least 13 months rose 8 percent in its China and Asia Pacific region in the fiscal fourth quarter. That was slower than the 9 percent gain in the third quarter and trailed analysts&rsquo; average estimate for a 9.1 percent increase.

  	Chief Executive Officer Howard Schultz has been expanding in China to tap growing demand from coffee drinkers in the world&rsquo;s most-populous nation.

  	Visa lost 2.5 percent to $198.68. Fourth-quarter net operating revenue rose 8.9 percent to $2.97 billion, missing the $3.02 billion average estimate of analysts in a Bloomberg survey.

  	Avon Products Inc., the world&rsquo;s largest door-to-door cosmetics seller, tumbled 15 percent to $19.03. Third-quarter adjusted profit was 14 cents a share, missing the 19-cent projection of analysts, as North American sales dropped 19 percent.

  	Facebook (FB) Inc. fell 1.9 percent to $48.06. Chief Financial Officer David Ebersman said the company will limit news-feed ads and younger teens aren&rsquo;t using its website as much as they used to. The social-networking service reported third-quarter profit of 25 cents a share as advertisers spent more on promotions targeting smartphone and tablet users. Analysts had predicted 19 cents on average.

  	Expedia rallied 17 percent to $58.65. Adjusted earnings were $1.43 per share in the third quarter, the online travel company said in a statement, more than the $1.36 predicted by analysts.

  	&nbsp;

