Dhanin Chearavanont\n\n

  	Mr. Dhanin Chearavanont serves as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer - CPP - holding company at Ek Chor China Motorcycle Co., Ltd. Mr. Chearavanont serves as a Member of the Executive Committee of OMNOVA Decorative Products Thailand. He serves as the Chairman of Chia Tai Group Company Limited. He served as the Chief Executive Officer of Chia Tai Group Company Limited. He served as Chief Executive Officer at CP Pokphand Co. Ltd. He has an extensive experience in establishing and operating businesses in Asia, Europe and the United States of America. Mr. Chearavanont has been Chairman of True Corporation Public Company Limited (formerly, Telecom Asia Corp. Public Co. Ltd.) since 1989 and serves as its Director. He has been the Chairman and Executive Director of Chia Tai Enterprises International Limited since December 31, 2009. He serves as the Chairman of True Multimedia Co. Ltd. He has been Co-Executive Chairman of CP Pokphand Co. Ltd. since 2005. Mr. Chearavanont serves as Honorary Chairman of United Commercial Bank (China) Limited. He serves as the Chairman of True Move Company Limited, Charoen Pokphand Foods Public Co. Ltd and CP ALL Public Company Limited (also known as C.P. Seven Eleven PCL). He served as Honorary Chairman of Siam Makro plc. He served as Vice President Commissioner of Charoen Pokphand Indonesia PT from 1999 to 2007. Mr. Chearavanont has been an Executive Director of CP Pokphand Co. Ltd. since 1988. Mr. Chearavanont also holds Directorship in a subsidiary of the Group. He serves as Director of Chia Tai Group Company Limited. He served as an Independent Director of Siam Makro plc from 2007 to November 2010. He served as Commissioner of Charoen Pokphand Indonesia PT since 1999. Mr. Chearavanont holds a Degree from National Defence College of Thailand and studied at Commercial School of Hong Kong and Shantou Secondary School of China and holds Certificate from Director Accreditation Program (DAP) from Thai Institute of Directors Association (IOD). 

