American Century One Choice In Retirement Portfolio Honored for Three-, Five and 10-Year Performance at 2015 Lipper Awards\n\n

  	At last night&rsquo;s Lipper Fund Awards U.S. 2015, American Century Investments&rsquo; One Choice In Retirement Portfolio - Institutional Class (ATTIX) received an award for its risk-adjusted mutual fund performance over the three-, five- and 10-year periods ending Nov. 30, 2014. Within Lipper&rsquo;s Mixed-Asset Target Today classification, One Choice In Retirement was ranked as the top fund against 114 peers for the three-year period, 103 peers for the five-year period and 42 peers for the 10-year period. 

  	Held annually, the Lipper Fund Awards recognize mutual funds and asset management firms that have excelled at delivering &ldquo;stronger and more consistent risk-adjusted performance&rdquo; relative to peers, based on Lipper&rsquo;s proprietary performance-based methodology. In addition to the One Choice In Retirement Portfolio&rsquo;s award for its performance over multiple time periods, two other American Century mutual funds received separate honors for achievements within their respective Lipper peer classifications. 

  	&ldquo;We&rsquo;re honored that Lipper is recognizing the strong short- and long-term performance record of One Choice In Retirement, a key component of our popular One Choice Target Date Portfolios,&rdquo; said Scott Wittman, American Century Investments chief investment officer responsible for asset allocation and disciplined equity strategies. &ldquo;When we launched this fund series more than a decade ago, our goal was to provide a robust retirement solution for a range of clients seeking strong risk-adjusted performance through an effective, disciplined asset allocation approach. Winning this award from Lipper validates the hard work of our investment management team and further bolsters American Century Investments&rsquo; credentials as a top-tier retirement destination.&rdquo; 

  	In addition to Wittman, the other portfolio managers on the One Choice Target Date Portfolios team are the firm&rsquo;s Co-Chief Investment Officer Dave MacEwen, Senior Vice President Rich Weiss and Vice Presidents Scott Wilson and Radu Gabudean. The fund series, which was launched in August 2004, has attracted approximately $14 billion* in client assets. 

  	The 2015 Lipper Fund Awards were presented March 31, 2015, at a ceremony in New York. The Lipper Fund Awards are part of the Thomson Reuters Awards for Excellence program, which recognizes top performance worldwide by mutual funds, fund management firms, sell-side firms, research analysts and investor relations teams. The other American Century Investments funds recognized at the 2015 awards are: 

  	American Century International Value Fund1 - Institutional Class (ACVUX) -- Winner for the five-year period ending Nov. 30, 2014 in Lipper&rsquo;s International Multi-Cap Value Fund classification, which has 100 peer funds. 

  	American Century Mid Cap Value Fund - Institutional Class (AVUAX) &ndash; Winner for the 10-year period ending Nov. 30, 2014 in Lipper&rsquo;s Multi-Cap Value Fund classification, which has 137 peer funds. 

  	American Century Investments is a leading privately held investment management firm, committed to delivering superior investment performance and building long-term client relationships since its founding in 1958. Serving investment professionals, institutions, corporations and individual investors, American Century Investments offers a variety of actively managed investment disciplines through an array of products including mutual funds, institutional separate accounts, commingled trusts and sub-advisory accounts. The company&#39;s 1,300 employees serve clients from offices in New York; London; Hong Kong; Mountain View, Calif.; and Kansas City, Mo. Jonathan S. Thomas is president and chief executive officer and Victor Zhang and David MacEwen serve as co-chief investment officers. Through its ownership structure, more than 40 percent of American Century Investments&#39; profits support research to help find cures for diseases including cancer, diabetes and dementia. For more information about American Century, visit&nbsp;http://www.americancentury.com. 

  	# # # 

  	You should consider the fund&rsquo;s investment objectives, risks, charges and expenses carefully before you invest. The fund&rsquo;s prospectus or summary prospectus, which can be obtained by visiting americancentury.com, contains this and other information about the fund, and should be read carefully before investing. 

  	Lipper Analytical Services, Inc. is an independent mutual fund research and rating service. Although Lipper makes reasonable efforts to ensure the accuracy and reliability of the data contained herein, the accuracy is not guaranteed by Lipper. Lipper awards are not intended to predict future results. 

  	The Lipper Fund Awards honor individual funds that have delivered stronger and more consistent risk-adjusted performance than their peers over the three-, five-, and 10-year periods ended Nov. 30, 2014. Lipper&#39;s proprietary mutual fund rating methodology is used to determine the winners. To be considered for a fund award in the U.S. funds must have at least 36 months of performance history and must be classified in a peer group with at least 10 distinct portfolios. The fund with the highest Lipper Leader rating for Consistent Return value in each eligible classification determines the classification winner over three, five, or 10 years. Other share classes may have different performance and expense characteristics. For a detailed information about the Lipper Fund Awards methodology visit&nbsp;http://excellence.thomsonreuters.com/award/lipper. 

  	A One Choice Target Date Portfolio&#39;s target date is the approximate year when investors plan to retire or start withdrawing their money. The principal value of the investment is not guaranteed at any time, including at the target date. Each target-date One Choice Target Date Portfolio seeks the highest total return consistent with its asset mix. Over time, the asset mix and weightings are adjusted to be more conservative. In general, as the target year approaches, the portfolio&#39;s allocation becomes more conservative by decreasing the allocation to stocks and increasing the allocation to bonds and money market instruments. 

  	The performance of the portfolios is dependent on the performance of their underlying American Century Investments funds and will assume the risks associated with these funds. The risks will vary according to each portfolio&#39;s asset allocation, and a fund with a later target date is expected to be more volatile than one with an earlier target date. 

  	&nbsp;

